Indego is a public bike sharing system in Philadelphia, PA that has docking stations throughout the city. Users can sign up for various types of passes such as annual, monthly, daily, hourly, etc. and are able to leave the bikes at a different station from where they undocked. Predicting the demand for bikes at different locations throughout the city is difficult. Improper distribution of bikes across the city, due to poor predictions, leaves some stations with not enough bikes and others with too many. Furthermore, there are several neighborhoods that do not readily have access to any docking station. The goal of my project is to develop a model using random forests to accurately predict demand. Specifically, I would like to predict demand in new areas that docking stations were recently installed as described in the next paragraph.

Spatial distribution of docking stations has become an increasing problem in many cities. During my discussion with Dr. Michelle Johnson, who utilized the bike share system Capital Bikeshare when she lived in Washington DC, stated the docking stations tend to be more concentrated in areas with predominantly white populations. “One of the previous assumptions about bike share was that the reason lower-income communities of color were not using it was due to a lack of interest,” says Dr. Johnson. This assumption, however, is wrong according to Dr. Johnson, who believes that minority groups have a favorable view and interest in bike sharing. Philadelphia added several new docking stations in neighborhoods that are predominately non-white in the past few years. Using the data gathered in the past year to predict demand in the new neighborhoods will allow us to see if the demographics of users are changing. If the results show that the new docking stations will be just as popular as the old ones, then this study can serve as an impetus for other cities to also build docking stations in underrepresented neighborhoods. 

This study is interdisciplinary because it concerns urban planning, transportation and health. Results from this study can contribute to all these fields and give more insight into where demand will be greatest. This can help urban planners in cities that are planning to build new or improve existing bike share systems. By studying the demographics of different areas, different health insights of various populations can be derived. 
